Now let's think what to do when a particular job or background job that we wanted to execute has actually
failed.
So let's run HP artisan and so far everything that we have done runs smoothly but of course you have
to prepare that something will just go wrong that one of the jobs that you put into the queue will fail.
For whatever reason whether this would be a code error or any other error and well with requests and
testing on the browser it's simple because you can see what is an actual error usually when you do something
wrong and we've cuz it's different.
It's hard to tell what has actually happened how to debug that.
So there is a way to solve that in a lot of VO.
It's to have the fail job stable and then to retry the failed jobs.
So first we will have to create a migration using queue failed table command.
So let's run it.
BHP artisan Q failed.
Table.
This will create this new migration so you have to run P2P artisan migrate and now let's see the list
of commands again.
So there is some additional command you can run to get the least of all the jobs that have failed for
some reason.
So let's run.
Peach bee artisan Q failed.
You can see that there are no failed jobs now if you will go to your database table refresh it now instead
of only the jobs stable you see there is also failed the job stable where all the jobs that failed for
any reason will be kept along with the exception so you can check out what has actually happened.
Now when running the Q worker so peach bee artisan Q work you can also specify how many times it should
try to attempt to execute a particular job before it puts start to the failed job stable.
So basically it will stop processing this job it will just put it away.
So let's say we'll specify it using this parameter free so remember that while you might have different
couple of processes running your Q worker on different servers but on the simplest example let's assume
that we just have one Q worker process so this is how you would specify the limit where it should just
give up and forget about a particular job.
So now the Q worker is started and it will try to attempt something three times.
So now this worker will attempt to process every job three times if it fails three times it will move
the to the failed jobs table.
So to test that out let's stop this worker using control C and let's actually introduce a braking change
but before we do that let's make sure this is put to be processed on the Q immediately so we can see
that.
So let's use Q instead of later and now on the comment posted markdown let's do something that will
actually make it break.
So it's not some simple example let's create a new instance of the blog post.
But let's make sure that you haven't added an import for this class.
So basically this will be a peach error it won't find the blog post in this current namespace up mail
and this would break.
So save the changes restart the worker with the three free attempts.
And now let's try to add a comment so you can see the comment was added.
And now when you will check out the Q worker inside the terminal you can see that it tried to process
a job three times and then it failed.
And now let's go back to our job stable.
You can see there is nothing there.
So this was moved to the failed jobs.
And here is where you can check what has actually happened.
So this is what I've said.
It says that class obsolete in a blog post not found.
And that makes perfect sense because we haven't other than import for it.
So that's why it just couldn't find this class and the job has failed.
Now let's go back to the terminal and open another top using common T or control T.
If you are on Windows well depending you can you also open just a new window of the power show depending
what you are using.
Now let's run peach artisan and you can see that there is this queue failed command.
We talked about that before.
So let's run peach B artisan queue failed and this is what what you see so we can check out which job
has failed when it failed.
What's the connection.
And on which cue this job was so let's see what are our options right now.
So what we can do is we can run CU retry so let's do that.
This will attempt to retry a failed job but actually you have to specify an I.D. Sorry I forgot about
that.
So let's do that again.
Que failed.
So the idea is one now let's try to retry this job.
So what this will actually do is it won't immediately Randy's job.
This command moved this job from failed jobs to the job stable so this can be processed by the queue
worker running into some other top.
But since we haven't fixed this class so we can see it was attempted three times again and then it failed
again.
So now let's see if we would be able to fix that by simply removing this code that has broken this.
So let's save the changes not this.
This won't be processed immediately as this is now a failed job.
So we have to query the table for the failed jobs first.
So this now has I.T. too.
So let's try to put it back on the queue.
So it has been put on the queue again and now actually what you see is that this was attempted three
times and also failed.
Even though we have just fixed this comment posted markdown class so that it shouldn't complain about
this blog post that is not in the namespace but what actually has happened is that the queue worker
is basically using the BJP.
Well they have a version of your project or every code that was available there when it was started.
So this is a long running process.
So whenever you make changes it won't ultimately pick up all of your changes or any of your changes
in the mother.
So basically to when you make changes in your code what you will have to do is you will have to restart
your queue worker.
So this would usually happen when you deploy your application.
But alternatively you might try to run a command.
So let's see again what do we have here.
So you might try to run this peach bee artisan queue restart.
Let's try it out.
Peach artisan.
Q restart.
No by the name of this command you might think that this will actually attempt to restart your Q Walker
but it did end and what it actually did is it killed or your Q worker processes but it also tried to
do that gracefully so they will only quit after they have processed their current job.
So when we are developing and we are just running those processes manually the Q worker process then
well nothing will restart.
So basically what this does is it kills or your Q workers and basically that's it.
So on your servers on your production development well any remote server you will have some tools that
will gracefully restart those processes like super supervised D.
But here in our development environment we just had to run it again
so we've run it again it's not working the queue is empty because well the last job has failed it has
been moved to their failed jobs.
So now what we will have to do is we'll have to least those failed jobs again so peach B artisan Q failed
retried the job.
The idea is now free.
So it has been put again on the queue and now it is being processed and processed successful successfully
so now on the jobs you won't see anything.
Also on the fate of the jobs you won't see anything.
And additionally you should now see email that was being sent.